Urchin Traffic Monitor (UTM) codes such as:

    http://toWebsite.com?utm_source=fromWebsite&utm_medium=bannerAd&utm_campaign=fundraiser2012 

The newer version of Google Analytics tracking code is known as the asynchronous tracking code,
which Google claims is significantly more sensitive and accurate, 
and is able to track even very short activities on the website.

ntegrated with AdWords, users can now review online campaigns by tracking landing page quality
and conversions (goals). Goals might include sales, lead generation, 
viewing a specific page, or downloading a particular file.

Google Analytics is implemented with "page tags", in this case called the Google Analytics Tracking
Code, which is a snippet of JavaScript code that the website owner adds to every page of 
the website. The tracking code runs in the client browser when the client browses the page 
(if JavaScript is enabled in the browser) and collects visitor data and sends it to a 
Google data collection server as part of a request for a web beacon.

The tracking code loads a larger JavaScript file from the Google webserver and then sets variables
with the user's account number. The larger file (currently known as ga.js) is typically 18 KB. 
The file does not usually have to be loaded, however, due to browser caching. 
Assuming caching is enabled in the browser, it downloads ga.js only once at 
the start of the visit. Furthermore, as all websites that implement Google Analytics 
with the ga.js code use the same master file from Google, 
a browser that has previously visited any other website running Google Analytics will already 
have the file cached on their machine.

In addition to transmitting information to a Google server, the tracking code sets first 
party cookies (If cookies are enabled in the browser) on each visitor's computer. 
These cookies store anonymous information such as whether the visitor has been to the site 
before (new or returning visitor), the timestamp of the current visit, and the referrer site 
or campaign that directed the visitor to the page (e.g., search engine, keywords, banner, or email).

 web analytics tools which use page tags (usually JavaScript programs) embedded in web pages 
 to collect visitor data, store it in cookies on the visitor's computer, 
 and transmit it to a remote database by pretending to load a tiny graphic "beacon"
